---
title: Learning Go
date: 2024-01-15 21:51
---

# Learning Go

Go doesn't have its own package management system, instead it uses git for that. Every single project created with go starts with `go mod init`. Another thing to note here is that cloning the original go github page is great for learning to code go.

First things to consider when writing a project is that `am i writing a command or a package`. When writing a `command` specifically means you are writing a main function.

## About packages
`package main`. It is a package that is used for things that turn into executables(Not for libraries, modules and packages).
We can use our own package. To do that, let's say for example we want to use our own package named "test". To use the package, one, there must be a file test.go, second, that test.go file must be in a folder called "test". Then after that to use the package we can simple say `package test`, and that will work fine.

## About backticks
In Go backticks are absolute literal constants. That means you can't put escape characters inside the backticks, it won't work. Another thing about backticks is that they support multi-lines by default.

## `go build` command
This command is used to create a binary from the source code using the parent directories name. If you want to name the name of the binary file, you can use the `go build -o NAME` flag.
We can use `go build` inorder to create a binary that runs on a specific OS or architecture. For example if we want to create a binary that only runs on windows, we can do that by using the `GOOS=windows go build DIR.` The `GOOS` prefix is an environment variable, and we can see the environment variables associated with go by using the command `go env`.


Interesting things to note:
- Go was designed by the people who invented unix operating system.
- It was designed for extreme fast performance, concurrency and easy to understand.
- One of the advantages of Go is writing a template language.
- He uses vim-go plugin to write go codes.
- Vim has a tremendous ability than code completion systems.
- Every single file that ends with `.go` must have a package name.
- Go code will not compile if we have an unused line.

From:
- [rwxrob](https://youtu.be/rfspYuA-0EY)
